Tuesday 11 May

I may as well continue to write—this book is used to scandalous mistreatment—while I wait—here interruptions began which lasted till the present moment/ when I write from 12.30 to 3 with Gerald Brenan in the study composing with infinite difficulty a letter to Mr Galsworthy. Arguing about the Ar[chbisho]p of Canterbury with Jack Squire at 12 seems now normal, but not—how often do I repeat—nearly as exciting as writing To the Lighthouse or about de Q[uincey]. I believe it is false psychology to think that in after years these details will be interesting. The war is now barren sand after all. But one never knows: & waiting about, writing serves to liberate the mind from the fret & itch of these innumerable details. Squire doesn't want to "knuckle under". To kneel is the duty of the Church. The Church has no connection with the nation. Events are that the Roneo workers refuse to set up L.'s article in the Nation, in which he says that the Strike is not illegal or unconstitutional. Presumably this is a little clutch of the Government throttle. Mr Baldwin has been visiting the Zoo. In the middle of lunch admirable Miss Bulley arrives, having visited Conway unsuccessfully. St Loe has joined. So Rose Macaulay & Lytton. Tonight the names are to be handed in; & then perhaps silence will descend upon us. Ralph & Gerald are our emissaries. But then everyone rings up—the most unlikely people—[Donald] Brace for instance, Kahan; the woman comes with the new sofa cover. Yester- day Ralph & Frances Marshall were in a railway accident. She had her teeth jangled. One man was killed; another had his leg broken—the result of driving a train without signals, by the efforts of ardent optimistic undergraduates. Billing has been in to say he will print anything, all his men being back & needing work. So, as poor MacDermott has been dead since January, perhaps the Nation will be done by them. Come to think of it, almost all our type is standing, so our printing was in any case hardly feasible. Must I now ring up James? Day's Library boy was set upon by roughs, had his cycle overturned, but kept his books & was unhurt after calling here for 6 Tree. Tree dribbles along. There is an occasional order. Mrs C[artwright]. arrives on Faith's bicycle which is red with rust.